Imagine that you have a customer dataset and you need to apply customer segmentation on this historical data. Customer segmentation is the practice of partitioning a customer base into groups of individuals that have similar characteristics.

one of the most adopted approaches that can be used for customer segmentation is clustering.

[See Clustering for Segmentation Picture]

Clustering can group data only unsupervised, based on the similarity of customers to each other.

It will partition your customers into mutually exclusive groups.

A cluster is a group of data points or objects in a dataset that are similar to other objects in the group, and dissimilar to datapoints in other clusters.

[See Clustering vs Classification.png]

Generally speaking, classification is a supervised learning where each training data instance belongs to a particular class. In clustering however, the data is unlabeled and the process is unsupervised.

generally clustering can be used for one of the following purposes: exploratory data analysis, summary generation or reducing the scale, outlier detection- especially to be used for fraud detection or noise removal, finding duplicates and datasets or as a pre-processing step for either prediction, other data mining tasks or as part of a complex system. Let's briefly look at different clustering algorithms and their characteristics.

[See Clustering Algorithmns Picture]

Partition-based clustering is a group of clustering algorithms that produces sphere-like clusters, such as; K-Means, K-Medians or Fuzzy c-Means. These algorithms are relatively efficient and are used for medium and large sized databases. 

Hierarchical clustering algorithms produce trees of clusters, such as agglomerative and divisive algorithms. This group of algorithms are very intuitive and are generally good for use with small size datasets. 

Density-based clustering algorithms produce arbitrary shaped clusters. They are especially good when dealing with spatial clusters or when there is noise in your data set. For example, the DB scan algorithm.


